Autocompletion (#3228)
ElektraInitiative/libelektra: src/tools/autocompletion/README.md

# Autocompletion

> To get autocompletion to run you need to have python3 installed and the kdb-python Module up and running.

Reviewer: link to python binding

## Bash

## How to get it to run

> To get the bash completion to run you need to run `source find_autocompletion_options.sh`. After that in your console you should be able to type `kdb <TAB><TAB>` and have completion options show up.

Reviewer: Mounting of specification not present. Error handling for root key not present. I currently get:

```
markus@zbook:~/Projekte/Elektra/current/src/tools/autocompletion$ kdb Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "find_autocompletion_options.py", line 190, in <module>
    result = find_auto_completion_options()
  File "find_autocompletion_options.py", line 60, in find_auto_completion_options
    root = root_key.getMeta('root').value
AttributeError: 'NoneType' object has no attribute 'getMeta'
```

> 

Reviewer: If I do `kdb mount $(pwd)/spec spec/tests/autocomplete ni` I get an error when typing `kdb list-tools <tab>`:

```
markus@zbook:~/Projekte/Elektra/current/src/tools/autocompletion$ kdb list-tools Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "find_autocompletion_options.py", line 190, in <module>
    result = find_auto_completion_options()
  File "find_autocompletion_options.py", line 66, in find_auto_completion_options
    option_completion = complete_options(key_last_word)
  File "find_autocompletion_options.py", line 141, in complete_options
    len_opts = int((key.getMeta(name='opt').value)[1:])
AttributeError: 'NoneType' object has no attribute 'value'
```

(kdb ls tab works)

> ## How to test

Reviewer: How to Run Tests

# Autocompletion

To get autocompletion to run you need to have python3 installed and the kdb-python Module up and running.
For the kdb-python Module to run, the `~/.bashrc` needs to contain `export PYTHONPATH=${PYTHONPATH}:/PATH/TO/PYTHON`.

## Bash

## How to get it to run

> First you need to mount the specification file with kdb by running `sudo kdb mount ~/PATH/TO/SPEC/FILE/spec_ spec/tests/autocomplete -f ni`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First you need to mount the specification file with kdb by running `sudo kdb mount /ABSOLUTE/PATH/TO/SPEC/FILE spec/tests/autocomplete -f ni`.
```

Reviewer: I would prefer if you say that you assume that someone is in the folder and then use `$(pwd)/spec` to refer to the spec file.

Reviewer: (Of course you need to explicitly write down that we assume someone is in this folder.)

> To get the bash completion to run you need to run `source find_autocompletion_options.sh`. The specifiaction File that should be used needs to be mounted

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get the bash completion to run you need to run `source kdb_find_autocompletion_otpions.sh`. The specification file that should be used needs to be mounted
```

After that in your console you should be able to type `kdb <TAB><TAB>` and have completion options show up.

## How to Run Tests

> Currently it is necessary to call the test-script from the folder the `find_autocompletion_options.py` is located.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently it is necessary to call the test-script from the folder where `find_autocompletion_options.py` is located.
```

> From this folder call `python3 test_SOME_TEST.py`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From this folder call `python3 test_find_autocompletion_commands_and_opts.py`.
```

On my machine some of the tests fail:

```
TESTCASE: all
RESULTS:
['--all', '--color', '--color', '--color', '--color', '--color', '--debug', '--debug', '--debug', '--debug', '--load', '--max-depth', '--min-depth', '--namespace', '--no-newline', '--null', '--null', '--plugins-config', '--profile', '--profile', '--profile', '--profile', '--profile', '--quiet', '--verbose', '--verbose', '--verbose', '--version', '--version', '--version', '--version', '--version', '-0', '-0', '-C', '-C', '-C', '-C', '-C', '-M', '-N', '-V', '-V', '-V', '-V', '-V', '-a', '-c', '-d', '-d', '-d', '-d', '-l', '-m', '-n', '-p', '-p', '-p', '-p', '-p', '-q', '-v', '-v', '-v']
EXPECTED RESULTS:
['get', 'list-tools', 'ls', 'plugin-info', 'plugin-list', 'set']
DIFFERENT LENGTHS OF RESULT & EXPECTED RESULT
LENGHT OF RESULT: 64
LENGHT OF EXPECTED RESULT: 6
MISSING: get
MISSING: list-tools
MISSING: ls
MISSING: plugin-info
MISSING: plugin-list
MISSING: set
NOT EXPECTED: --all
NOT EXPECTED: --color
NOT EXPECTED: --color
NOT EXPECTED: --color
NOT EXPECTED: --color
NOT EXPECTED: --color
NOT EXPECTED: --debug
NOT EXPECTED: --debug
NOT EXPECTED: --debug
NOT EXPECTED: --debug
NOT EXPECTED: --load
NOT EXPECTED: --max-depth
NOT EXPECTED: --min-depth
NOT EXPECTED: --namespace
NOT EXPECTED: --no-newline
NOT EXPECTED: --null
NOT EXPECTED: --null
NOT EXPECTED: --plugins-config
NOT EXPECTED: --profile
NOT EXPECTED: --profile
NOT EXPECTED: --profile
NOT EXPECTED: --profile
NOT EXPECTED: --profile
NOT EXPECTED: --quiet
NOT EXPECTED: --verbose
NOT EXPECTED: --verbose
NOT EXPECTED: --verbose
NOT EXPECTED: --version
NOT EXPECTED: --version
NOT EXPECTED: --version
NOT EXPECTED: --version
NOT EXPECTED: --version
NOT EXPECTED: -0
NOT EXPECTED: -0
NOT EXPECTED: -C
NOT EXPECTED: -C
NOT EXPECTED: -C
NOT EXPECTED: -C
NOT EXPECTED: -C
NOT EXPECTED: -M
NOT EXPECTED: -N
NOT EXPECTED: -V
NOT EXPECTED: -V
NOT EXPECTED: -V
NOT EXPECTED: -V
NOT EXPECTED: -V
NOT EXPECTED: -a
NOT EXPECTED: -c
NOT EXPECTED: -d
NOT EXPECTED: -d
NOT EXPECTED: -d
NOT EXPECTED: -d
NOT EXPECTED: -l
NOT EXPECTED: -m
NOT EXPECTED: -n
NOT EXPECTED: -p
NOT EXPECTED: -p
NOT EXPECTED: -p
NOT EXPECTED: -p
NOT EXPECTED: -p
NOT EXPECTED: -q
NOT EXPECTED: -v
NOT EXPECTED: -v
NOT EXPECTED: -v
FAILURE - all
TESTCASE: start with: a
RESULTS:
['--all', '-a']
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
DIFFERENT LENGTHS OF RESULT & EXPECTED RESULT
LENGHT OF RESULT: 2
LENGHT OF EXPECTED RESULT: 0
NOT EXPECTED: --all
NOT EXPECTED: -a
FAILURE - start with: a
TESTCASE: start with: b
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
SUCCESS - start with: b
TESTCASE: start with: c
RESULTS:
['--color', '--color', '--color', '--color', '--color', '-c']
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
DIFFERENT LENGTHS OF RESULT & EXPECTED RESULT
LENGHT OF RESULT: 6
LENGHT OF EXPECTED RESULT: 0
NOT EXPECTED: --color
NOT EXPECTED: --color
NOT EXPECTED: --color
NOT EXPECTED: --color
NOT EXPECTED: --color
NOT EXPECTED: -c
FAILURE - start with: c
TESTCASE: start with: d
RESULTS:
['--debug', '--debug', '--debug', '--debug', '-d', '-d', '-d', '-d']
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
DIFFERENT LENGTHS OF RESULT & EXPECTED RESULT
LENGHT OF RESULT: 8
LENGHT OF EXPECTED RESULT: 0
NOT EXPECTED: --debug
NOT EXPECTED: --debug
NOT EXPECTED: --debug
NOT EXPECTED: --debug
NOT EXPECTED: -d
NOT EXPECTED: -d
NOT EXPECTED: -d
NOT EXPECTED: -d
FAILURE - start with: d
TESTCASE: start with: e
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
SUCCESS - start with: e
TESTCASE: start with: f
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
SUCCESS - start with: f
TESTCASE: start with: g
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
['get']
DIFFERENT LENGTHS OF RESULT & EXPECTED RESULT
LENGHT OF RESULT: 0
LENGHT OF EXPECTED RESULT: 1
MISSING: get
FAILURE - start with: g
TESTCASE: start with: h
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
SUCCESS - start with: h
TESTCASE: start with: i
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
SUCCESS - start with: i
TESTCASE: start with: j
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
SUCCESS - start with: j
TESTCASE: start with: k
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
SUCCESS - start with: k
TESTCASE: start with: l
RESULTS:
['--load', '-l']
EXPECTED RESULTS:
['list-tools', 'ls']
MISSING: list-tools
MISSING: ls
NOT EXPECTED: --load
NOT EXPECTED: -l
FAILURE - start with: l
TESTCASE: start with: m
RESULTS:
['--max-depth', '--min-depth', '-m']
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
DIFFERENT LENGTHS OF RESULT & EXPECTED RESULT
LENGHT OF RESULT: 3
LENGHT OF EXPECTED RESULT: 0
NOT EXPECTED: --max-depth
NOT EXPECTED: --min-depth
NOT EXPECTED: -m
FAILURE - start with: m
TESTCASE: start with: n
RESULTS:
['--namespace', '--no-newline', '--null', '--null', '-n']
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
DIFFERENT LENGTHS OF RESULT & EXPECTED RESULT
LENGHT OF RESULT: 5
LENGHT OF EXPECTED RESULT: 0
NOT EXPECTED: --namespace
NOT EXPECTED: --no-newline
NOT EXPECTED: --null
NOT EXPECTED: --null
NOT EXPECTED: -n
FAILURE - start with: n
TESTCASE: start with: o
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
SUCCESS - start with: o
TESTCASE: start with: p
RESULTS:
['--plugins-config', '--profile', '--profile', '--profile', '--profile', '--profile', '-p', '-p', '-p', '-p', '-p']
EXPECTED RESULTS:
['plugin-info', 'plugin-list']
DIFFERENT LENGTHS OF RESULT & EXPECTED RESULT
LENGHT OF RESULT: 11
LENGHT OF EXPECTED RESULT: 2
MISSING: plugin-info
MISSING: plugin-list
NOT EXPECTED: --plugins-config
NOT EXPECTED: --profile
NOT EXPECTED: --profile
NOT EXPECTED: --profile
NOT EXPECTED: --profile
NOT EXPECTED: --profile
NOT EXPECTED: -p
NOT EXPECTED: -p
NOT EXPECTED: -p
NOT EXPECTED: -p
NOT EXPECTED: -p
FAILURE - start with: p
TESTCASE: start with: q
RESULTS:
['--quiet', '-q']
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
DIFFERENT LENGTHS OF RESULT & EXPECTED RESULT
LENGHT OF RESULT: 2
LENGHT OF EXPECTED RESULT: 0
NOT EXPECTED: --quiet
NOT EXPECTED: -q
FAILURE - start with: q
TESTCASE: start with: r
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
SUCCESS - start with: r
TESTCASE: start with: s
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
['set']
DIFFERENT LENGTHS OF RESULT & EXPECTED RESULT
LENGHT OF RESULT: 0
LENGHT OF EXPECTED RESULT: 1
MISSING: set
FAILURE - start with: s
TESTCASE: start with: t
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
SUCCESS - start with: t
TESTCASE: start with: u
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
SUCCESS - start with: u
TESTCASE: start with: v
RESULTS:
['--verbose', '--verbose', '--verbose', '--version', '--version', '--version', '--version', '--version', '-v', '-v', '-v']
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
DIFFERENT LENGTHS OF RESULT & EXPECTED RESULT
LENGHT OF RESULT: 11
LENGHT OF EXPECTED RESULT: 0
NOT EXPECTED: --verbose
NOT EXPECTED: --verbose
NOT EXPECTED: --verbose
NOT EXPECTED: --version
NOT EXPECTED: --version
NOT EXPECTED: --version
NOT EXPECTED: --version
NOT EXPECTED: --version
NOT EXPECTED: -v
NOT EXPECTED: -v
NOT EXPECTED: -v
FAILURE - start with: v
TESTCASE: start with: w
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
SUCCESS - start with: w
TESTCASE: start with: x
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
SUCCESS - start with: x
TESTCASE: start with: y
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
SUCCESS - start with: y
TESTCASE: start with: z
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
SUCCESS - start with: z
TESTCASE: start with: lis
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
['list-tools']
DIFFERENT LENGTHS OF RESULT & EXPECTED RESULT
LENGHT OF RESULT: 0
LENGHT OF EXPECTED RESULT: 1
MISSING: list-tools
FAILURE - start with: lis
TESTCASE: start with: rm
RESULTS:
[]
EXPECTED RESULTS:
[]
SUCCESS - start with: rm
TESTCASE: start with: plugi
RESULTS:
['--plugins-config']
EXPECTED RESULTS:
['plugin-info', 'plugin-list']
DIFFERENT LENGTHS OF RESULT & EXPECTED RESULT
LENGHT OF RESULT: 1
LENGHT OF EXPECTED RESULT: 2
MISSING: plugin-info
MISSING: plugin-list
NOT EXPECTED: --plugins-config
FAILURE - start with: plugi

Tests run: 30
FAILURES: 14
SUCCESSES: 16
```

. Is this expected behavior?
